# Question 2

Watch [this video on nodes and elements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhvec8cXLlo)

What is the difference between an HTMLCollections and NodeLists? Are they arrays?

# Answer

To break down the differences between HTMLCollections and NodeLists:

An **HTMLCollection** is a live list of DOM elements that match a specific criteria defined at its invocation. For example, the line `document.getElementsByTagName("div")` returns a collection of all the `<div>` elements in the document. A key point here is that HTMLCollections only contain elements and no other node types like text nodes or comments.

- To clarify, HTMLCollection lists are dynamically updated as the DOM changes, reflecting real-time updates. This makes it harder to troubleshoot bugs later on, making it the least preferred method of the two.

- HTMLCollection do not directly support array methods like `forEach()` or `map()`, necessitating conversion using `Array.from()` or the spread operator [...] to iterate through it if wanted.

A **NodeList**, depending on how it's created, on the other hand, can be either a live or static list of nodes (which can be anything from elements, texts, comments, attributes, and so on). For example, `document.querySelectorAll(".button")` returns a static list of all elements and other node types with the class name button, while `.childNodes` returns a live list.

- Static NodeLists are static in the way that changes to the DOM do not affect them. This is because the method only retrieves a snapshot of the DOM at the time it was called/queried to the call stack. Meanwhile, live NodeLists update in real time as changes are made to the DOM, like HTMLCollections.

- NodeLists offers support for the `forEach()` array method, but will still need to be converted into an array to utilize other array methods like `map()`. This makes NodeLists slightly easier to work with for iterative tasks.

Both **HTMLCollections** and **NodeLists** look similar in that they return array-like lists. However, it's important to note that neither method is an array, only array-like. Their contents can be assessed through indexing, and their output contains length properties.

# Teacher Feedback

Score: 3/3
Great job!
